with every story of suffering fond
memories of Gaza Fade Away Hassan Abu
Sharif says he barely recognizes the
place by the Sea he loved as a young man
here in jalone refugee camp in ramala he
says he feels helpless and what's
happening in Gaza feels
[Music]
familiar my grandchildren ask about our
village I tell them we lost our village
in the nakba we are refugees but this is
temporary sooner or later we will go
back we must go
back he was only three when his family
fled their home in Jaffa after massacres
carried out by Israeli gangs in 1948
back then Israelis would leave dead
bodies inside mosques hen says he won't
be forced out of his home again during
the NBA Palestinians were often
transported to Safety in buses like this
one it is a reminder of a national
tragedy a painful past and with what has
happened happening in Gaza people are
worried that history could be repeating
itself many Palestinians fled with
nothing but their stories of
suffering Adel T has spent his career
preserving those stories using art to
pass them on to the next
Generation but he describes what is
happening in Gaza as ethnic cleansing
and says poems performances words are
all useless now
sometimes you need different tools when
there is a fight you fight when there is
a war you defend yourself and fight with
the same tools your enemy is
using night after night Palestinian
fighters in Janine confront Israeli
Special Forces using homemade pipe
bombs outgunned but motivated they say
it's victory or
death as long as there's air in our
lungs we're not letting go of the gun
this is our land and will remain ours we
won't make the mistake of leaving our
lands like our grandfathers when they
left they were humiliated we're not
going to do that Israel's first prime
minister Ben gurian said of the nakba
the old will die and the young will
forget 75 years later the young grew old
and still remember and a new generation
of young is fighting
back Zan basravi Al jazer rala in the
occupied West
Bank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer